README.md, before:

# SQL
A simple SQL injection protection module that allows you to use ES6 template strings for escaped statements. Works with [pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg), [mysql](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql) and [mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2) library.

[![npm version][1]][2] [![build status][3]][4] [![js-standard-style][5]][6]



1. [Install](#install)
2. [Usage](#usage)
    1. [Linting](#linting)
3. [Methods](#methods)
    1. [append](#appendstatement)
    2. [glue](#gluepieces-separator)
4. [How it works?](#how-it-works)
5. [Testing, linting, & coverage](#testing-linting--coverage)
6. [Benchmark](#benchmark)
7. [License](#license)

## Install

```sh
npm install @nearform/sql
```

## Usage

```js
const SQL = require('@nearform/sql')

const username = 'user'
const email = 'user@email.com'
const password = 'Password1'

// generate SQL query
const sql = SQL`
  INSERT INTO users (username, email, password)
  VALUES (${username},${email},${password})
`

pg.query(sql) // execute query in pg

mysql.query(sql) // execute query in mysql

mysql2.query(sql) // execute query in mysql2
```

### Linting
We recommend using [eslint-plugin-sql](https://github.com/gajus/eslint-plugin-sql#eslint-plugin-sql-rules-no-unsafe-query) to prevent cases in which the SQL tag is forgotten to be added in front of template strings. Eslint will fail if you write SQL queries without `sql` tag in front of the string.

```js
`SELECT 1`
// fails - Message: Use "sql" tag

sql`SELECT 1`
// passes
```

## Methods
### append(statement[, options])
```js
const username = 'user1'
const email = 'user1@email.com'
const userId = 1

const sql = SQL`UPDATE users SET name = ${username}, email = ${email} `
sql.append(SQL`SET ${dynamicName} = '2'`, { unsafe: true })
sql.append(SQL`WHERE id = ${userId}`)
```

### glue(pieces, separator)
```js
const username = 'user1'
const email = 'user1@email.com'
const userId = 1

const sql = SQL` UPDATE users SET `

const updates = []
updates.push(SQL`name = ${username}`)
updates.push(SQL`email = ${email}`)

sql.append(sql.glue(updates, ' , '))
sql.append(SQL`WHERE id = ${userId}`)
```

or also

```js
const ids = [1, 2, 3]
const value = 'test'
const sql = SQL` UPDATE users SET property = ${value}`

const idsSqls = ids.map(id => SQL`${id}`)

sql.append(SQL`WHERE id IN (`)
sql.append(sql.glue(idsSqls, ' , '))
sql.append(SQL`)`)
```

## How it works?
The SQL template string tag parses query and returns an objects that's understandable by [pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg) library:
```js
const username = 'user'
const email = 'user@email.com'
const password = 'Password1'

const sql = SQL`INSERT INTO users (username, email, password) VALUES (${username},${email},${password})` // generate SQL query
sql.text // INSERT INTO users (username, email, password) VALUES ($1 , $2 , $3) - for pg
sql.sql // INSERT INTO users (username, email, password) VALUES (? , ? , ?) - for mysql and mysql2
sql.values // ['user, 'user@email.com', 'Password1']
```

## Testing, linting, & coverage
This module can be tested and reported on in a variety of ways...
```sh
npm run test            # runs tap based unit test suite.
npm run test:security   # runs sqlmap security tests.
npm run coverage        # generates a coverage report in docs dir.
npm run lint            # lints via standardJS.
```

## Benchmark
Find more about `@nearform/sql` speed [here](benchmark)

# License
Copyright nearForm 2018. Licensed under
[Apache 2.0](<https://tldrlegal.com/license/apache-license-2.0-(apache-2.0)>)

[1]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@nearform/sql.svg?style=flat-square
[2]: https://npmjs.org/package/@nearform/sql
[3]: https://circleci.com/gh/nearform/sql/tree/master.svg?style=shield&circle-token=ec5a946d225c797d503fc5a748137db7b82ab47f
[4]: https://circleci.com/gh/nearform/sql
[5]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square
[6]: https://github.com/feross/standard

Commit message:

Add debug SQL attribute and bump deps

README.md, after:

# SQL
A simple SQL injection protection module that allows you to use ES6 template strings for escaped statements. Works with [pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg), [mysql](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql) and [mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2) library.

[![npm version][1]][2] [![build status][3]][4] [![js-standard-style][5]][6]



1. [Install](#install)
2. [Usage](#usage)
    1. [Linting](#linting)
3. [Methods](#methods)
    1. [append](#appendstatement)
    2. [glue](#gluepieces-separator)
4. [How it works?](#how-it-works)
5. [Testing, linting, & coverage](#testing-linting--coverage)
6. [Benchmark](#benchmark)
7. [License](#license)

## Install

```sh
npm install @nearform/sql
```

## Usage

```js
const SQL = require('@nearform/sql')

const username = 'user'
const email = 'user@email.com'
const password = 'Password1'

// generate SQL query
const sql = SQL`
  INSERT INTO users (username, email, password)
  VALUES (${username},${email},${password})
`

pg.query(sql) // execute query in pg

mysql.query(sql) // execute query in mysql

mysql2.query(sql) // execute query in mysql2
```

### Linting
We recommend using [eslint-plugin-sql](https://github.com/gajus/eslint-plugin-sql#eslint-plugin-sql-rules-no-unsafe-query) to prevent cases in which the SQL tag is forgotten to be added in front of template strings. Eslint will fail if you write SQL queries without `sql` tag in front of the string.

```js
`SELECT 1`
// fails - Message: Use "sql" tag

sql`SELECT 1`
// passes
```

## Methods
### append(statement[, options])
```js
const username = 'user1'
const email = 'user1@email.com'
const userId = 1

const sql = SQL`UPDATE users SET name = ${username}, email = ${email} `
sql.append(SQL`SET ${dynamicName} = '2'`, { unsafe: true })
sql.append(SQL`WHERE id = ${userId}`)
```

### glue(pieces, separator)
```js
const username = 'user1'
const email = 'user1@email.com'
const userId = 1

const sql = SQL` UPDATE users SET `

const updates = []
updates.push(SQL`name = ${username}`)
updates.push(SQL`email = ${email}`)

sql.append(sql.glue(updates, ' , '))
sql.append(SQL`WHERE id = ${userId}`)
```

or also

```js
const ids = [1, 2, 3]
const value = 'test'
const sql = SQL` UPDATE users SET property = ${value}`

const idsSqls = ids.map(id => SQL`${id}`)

sql.append(SQL`WHERE id IN (`)
sql.append(sql.glue(idsSqls, ' , '))
sql.append(SQL`)`)
```

## How it works?
The SQL template string tag parses query and returns an objects that's understandable by [pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg) library:
```js
const username = 'user'
const email = 'user@email.com'
const password = 'Password1'

const sql = SQL`INSERT INTO users (username, email, password) VALUES (${username},${email},${password})` // generate SQL query
sql.text // INSERT INTO users (username, email, password) VALUES ($1 , $2 , $3) - for pg
sql.sql // INSERT INTO users (username, email, password) VALUES (? , ? , ?) - for mysql and mysql2
sql.values // ['user, 'user@email.com', 'Password1']
```

To help with debugging, you can also view an approximate representation of the SQL query with values filled in. It may differ from the actual SQL executed by your database, but serves as a handy reference when debugging. The debug output *should not* be executed as it is not guaranteed safe.

```js
sql.debug // INSERT INTO users (username, email, password) VALUES ('user','user@email.com','Password1')
```

## Testing, linting, & coverage
This module can be tested and reported on in a variety of ways...
```sh
npm run test            # runs tap based unit test suite.
npm run test:security   # runs sqlmap security tests.
npm run coverage        # generates a coverage report in docs dir.
npm run lint            # lints via standardJS.
```

## Benchmark
Find more about `@nearform/sql` speed [here](benchmark)

# License
Copyright nearForm 2018. Licensed under
[Apache 2.0](<https://tldrlegal.com/license/apache-license-2.0-(apache-2.0)>)

[1]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@nearform/sql.svg?style=flat-square
[2]: https://npmjs.org/package/@nearform/sql
[3]: https://circleci.com/gh/nearform/sql/tree/master.svg?style=shield&circle-token=ec5a946d225c797d503fc5a748137db7b82ab47f
[4]: https://circleci.com/gh/nearform/sql
[5]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square
[6]: https://github.com/feross/standard
